README.md, before:

# Introduction
This project was inspired by:
* https://github.com/nwojke/deep_sort
* https://github.com/Ma-Dan/keras-yolo4
* https://github.com/Qidian213/deep_sort_yolov3

I swapped out YOLO v3 for YOLO v4 and added the option for asynchronous processing, which significantly improves
the FPS. However, FPS monitoring is disabled when asynchronous processing is used since it isn't accurate.

## YOLO v3 and YOLO v4 comparison video with Deep SORT
[![Comparison Video Link](https://img.youtube.com/vi/_8WkO3hVOlY/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/_8WkO3hVOlY)

The white boxes are Deep SORT trackers and the blue boxes are YOLO v4 detections. Each white box has a tracking ID at the top and each blue box has a YOLO detection confidence score at the bottom. 

## With asynchronous processing
![](async_example.gif)

As you can see in the gif, asynchronous processing has better FPS but causes stuttering.

This code only detects and tracks people, but can be changed to detect other objects by changing lines 103 in yolo.py. For example, to detect people and cars, change
```
if predicted_class != 'person':
    continue
```
to
```
if predicted_class not in ('person', 'car'):
    continue
```

Please note that Deep SORT is only trained on tracking people, so you'd need to train a model yourself for tracking other objects.
See https://github.com/nwojke/cosine_metric_learning.

## Performance
Real-time FPS with video writing:
* ~4.3fps with YOLO v3
* ~10.6fps with YOLO v4

Turning off tracking gave ~12.5fps with YOLO v4.

YOLO v4 performs much faster and appears to be more stable than YOLO v3. All tests were done using an Nvidia GTX 1070 8gb GPU
 and an i7-8700k CPU.

# Quick start
[Download](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1cewMfusmPjYWbrnuJRuKhPMwRe_b9PaT) and convert the Darknet YOLO v4 model  to a Keras model by modifying convert.py accordingly and run:
```
python convert.py
```
Then run demo.py:
```
python demo.py
```

## Settings
By default, tracking and video writing is on and asynchronous processing is off. These can be edited in demo.py by changing:
```
tracking = True
writeVideo_flag = True
asyncVideo_flag = False
```

To change target file in demo.py:
```
file_path = 'video.webm'
```

To change output settings in demo.py:
```
out = cv2.VideoWriter('output_yolov4.avi', fourcc, 30, (w, h))
```

# Training your own YOLO v4 model
See https://github.com/Ma-Dan/keras-yolo4.

# Dependencies
* Tensorflow GPU 1.14
* Keras 2.3.1
* opencv-python 4.2.0
* imutils 0.5.3
* numpy 1.18.2
* sklearn

## Running with Tensorflow 1.14 vs 2.0
Navigate to the appropriate folder and run python scripts. 

### Conda environment used for Tensorflow 2.0
(see requirements.txt)
* imutils                   0.5.3                    
* keras                     2.3.1                    
* matplotlib                3.2.1                    
* numpy                     1.18.4                   
* opencv-python             4.2.0.34                 
* pillow                    7.1.2                    
* python                    3.6.10               
* scikit-learn              0.23.1                   
* scipy                     1.4.1                    
* sklearn                   0.0                     
* tensorboard               2.2.1                    
* tensorflow                2.0.0                    
* tensorflow-estimator      2.1.0                    
* tensorflow-gpu            2.2.0

Commit message:

added low confidence track filtering
Changed deep_sort/tracker.py and deep_sort/track.py to initiate tracks
based on average detection confidence over a set number of detections.

Detections can be hidden to show the average detection confidence and
the most common detection class for each track.

Separated into different directories within each Tensorflow version for normal Deep SORT and Deep SORT with low confidence
track filtering.

README.md, after:

# Introduction
This project was inspired by:
* https://github.com/nwojke/deep_sort
* https://github.com/Ma-Dan/keras-yolo4
* https://github.com/Qidian213/deep_sort_yolov3

I swapped out YOLO v3 for YOLO v4 and added the option for asynchronous processing, which significantly improves
the FPS. However, FPS monitoring is disabled when asynchronous processing is used since it isn't accurate.

## Low confidence track filtering
[![Comparison Video Link](https://img.youtube.com/vi/01Geud6GmB4/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/01Geud6GmB4)

Navigate to the appropriate folder to use low confidence track filtering. The above video demonstrates the difference.

I took the algorithm from this [https://www.researchgate.net/publication/337541842_Vehicle_Tracking_Using_Deep_SORT_with_Low_Confidence_Track_Filtering](paper) and implemented it into deep_sort/track.py. This reduces tracking false positives by calculating the average detection confidence over a set number of detections before a track is initiated. The average detection threshold (`adc_threshold`) and the number of detections (`n_init`) can be changed in deep_sort/tracker.py.

## YOLO v3 and YOLO v4 comparison video with Deep SORT
[![Comparison Video Link](https://img.youtube.com/vi/_8WkO3hVOlY/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/_8WkO3hVOlY)

## With asynchronous processing
![](gifs/async_example.gif)

As you can see in the gif, asynchronous processing has better FPS but causes stuttering.

This code only detects and tracks people, but can be changed to detect other objects by changing lines 103 in yolo.py. For example, to detect people and cars, change
```
if predicted_class != 'person':
    continue
```
to
```
if predicted_class not in ('person', 'car'):
    continue
```

Please note that Deep SORT is only trained on tracking people, so you'd need to train a model yourself for tracking other objects.
See https://github.com/nwojke/cosine_metric_learning.

## Performance
Real-time FPS with video writing:
* ~4.3fps with YOLO v3
* ~10.6fps with YOLO v4

Turning off tracking gave ~12.5fps with YOLO v4.

YOLO v4 performs much faster and appears to be more stable than YOLO v3. All tests were done using an Nvidia GTX 1070 8gb GPU
 and an i7-8700k CPU.

# Quick start
[Download](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1cewMfusmPjYWbrnuJRuKhPMwRe_b9PaT) and convert the Darknet YOLO v4 model  to a Keras model by modifying convert.py accordingly and run:
```
python convert.py
```
Then run demo.py:
```
python demo.py
```

## Settings
By default, tracking and video writing is on and asynchronous processing is off. These can be edited in demo.py by changing:
```
tracking = True
writeVideo_flag = True
asyncVideo_flag = False
```

To change target file in demo.py:
```
file_path = 'video.webm'
```

To change output settings in demo.py:
```
out = cv2.VideoWriter('output_yolov4.avi', fourcc, 30, (w, h))
```

# Training your own YOLO v4 model
See https://github.com/Ma-Dan/keras-yolo4.

# Dependencies
* Tensorflow GPU 1.14
* Keras 2.3.1
* opencv-python 4.2.0
* imutils 0.5.3
* numpy 1.18.2
* sklearn

## Running with Tensorflow 1.14 vs 2.0
Navigate to the appropriate folder and run python scripts. 

### Conda environment used for Tensorflow 2.0
(see requirements.txt)
* imutils                   0.5.3                    
* keras                     2.3.1                    
* matplotlib                3.2.1                    
* numpy                     1.18.4                   
* opencv-python             4.2.0.34                 
* pillow                    7.1.2                    
* python                    3.6.10               
* scikit-learn              0.23.1                   
* scipy                     1.4.1                    
* sklearn                   0.0                     
* tensorboard               2.2.1                    
* tensorflow                2.0.0                    
* tensorflow-estimator      2.1.0                    
* tensorflow-gpu            2.2.0
